# SpaceshipGame

Before beginning, ensure that the “Sound” Processing library is installed. This can be done by going to Tools -> Manage Tools -> Libraries, then searching for “Sound” and clicking Install. Then run the game. A start screen should show, press any key to start playing. To maneuver the spaceship use either the arrow keys on your keypad or WASD for up, left, down, right respectively. If  you would like to shoot bullets, you can press the spacebar. Both movement and shooting can be concurrently executed. The objective of the game is to destroy as many enemy spaceships as possible and evade their bullets. Your score and the game high score is tracked at the top. If you would like to reset your high score, open the “highscore.txt” file and delete whatever number is tracked. You have three lives before you lose the game; you can lose a life by being hit by an enemy ship or its bullets. Once you lose all three lives, you can restart the game by pressing any key again. Feel free to mute the music by clicking the speaker icon in the left upper corner of the screen.


This project is a processing based shooter arcade game called Space Net. In this game, a spaceship initially located at the bottom of the screen is able to maneuver through the galaxy using the arrows on your keypad or the arrows as well. Unfortunately, the spaceship is attacked by enemy spaceships that shoot either water bullets or fire bullets. If the hero spaceship is hit by a bullet, he/she loses one of their three lives. If the user loses all three lives, the game is over. 

The game uses keyboard interactivity using the arrow keys or WASD to move the hero spaceship around. There are multiple GUI systems with a start screen, the game screen, and a game over screen, and other GUI elements like the lives and score counters. The class objects are the Enemy class (with subclasses WaterEnemy, WaterParticle, FireEnemy, and FireParticle) and the Spaceship class (with the Bullet subclass). The animation hierarchy requirements are fulfilled through the main movements of each object, plus multiple sub-animations through bullet sprite animations. Data output is tracked by saving the user’s high score in a text file and it will still remain on screen even if the game is closed and reopened. Sound is used by background music and a sound effect when a bullet is fired, and can be muted/unmuted with the sound button in the top left corner.
